25X1A 



r 


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 


m 


36-8 



COUNTRY USSR 

SUBJECT INDICATIONS OF PSYCHOLOGICAL VUI2TERABILITIES 


HOW 

PUBLISHED 

WHERE 

PUBLISHED 

DATE 

PUBLISHED 

LANGUAGE 


CHANGE TO 

ITT' ' TIRED 

PER HEGr.ADING, 
BULLETIN NO-^-L- 


DATE OF Feb . 16 - 
INFORMATION Mar. 2, 1952 

DATE DIST. 2.4 MAP $2^ 

0 


O 


O 


NO. OF PAGES 


SUPPLEMENT TO 
REPORT NO. 


THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFICTIN# TMX NATIONAL DKFINIK 
OF Till UHlTID STATU WITHIN TM I HCANINO OF IIFIONACK ACT SO 
ANO St. At ANtHDID IT* TRANSMISSION ON THI NtVILATION 
CONTENTS IN ANT MANN t A TO AN UNAUTHONIlIO FINSON IS FRO- 
MISITIO ST LAV. At PRODUCTION OF THIS FONK IS FNOHI1ITXD 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


CPW Report No. 2k — USSR 
(Feb. l6-Mar. 2, 1952) 


SUMMARY 

The South Ukrainian and. Main Turkmenian canals are criticized for lack of proper organization and 
slow progress. Steady, rhythmic work "without fits and starts" (bez ryvkov i shturmovshchiny) is 
PRATO A* s prescription for industry which still needs a great deal of prodding. The lumber 
industry, haring failed in its 1951 production plan, is still unable to keep up with its 
schedules. The shortage of skilled industrial workers and lax discipline claim much official, 
attention. There is little information on the railroad, mining, and fishing industries. 

References to matters of ideology are few and scattered. Amateur art in the USSR is said to be 
disappointing and in need of more and better guidance. Nationalistic sentiments hare not yet 
been stamped out in the Ukraine, presumably in its Western provinces, according to one source. 

The Kazakhs sire reminded once more that their destiny is tied up with that of the Russian and 
Soviet peoples. 


CONFIDENTIAL 



BULLET Ik i.u. £ & 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CLASSIFICATION 


STATE 

£1 

NAVY 

V 

NSRB 


DISTRIBUTION 



. T ... 

□ 



ARMY 


AIR 


FBI 


— 1 1 : ~~x_ 




L 




Approved For Release 2003/10/01 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000500740036-8 













pproved For Release 2003/10/01 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000500740036-8 

25X1 A 

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 


CFW Report No. 24-A^ 
(Feb. 16-Mar,. 2, 1952) 


PUBLISHED: 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 



CONTENTS 


INDUSTRY. 


RAILROADS. 


mining............. 4 

IDEOLOGICAL WEAKNESSES ..... 4 


Industry- Canal C onstruction Too Slow : The construction of the Main Turkmenian Canal, according 
to a Kornilov report carried 'by FRAVDA (Feb. 18, not broadcast), has been left virtually without 
leadership and help 1 (faktichejski ostalasjbez rukovodstva 1 pomoshchi). Haying failed to ex^-ciae 
supervision for a long' time, the Communications Ministry sounded an alarm (zabllo trevogu) when 
construction work Almost came to a standstill. The Ministry, however, is not doingmch now 
beyond issuing ordd, A directives, and instructions:; "The stream of paper flows on (bumazhniy 
potok prodolzhayetsla) . Orders to build! railroad spurs leading to the construction sites were 
issued last December,! but so far neither ! the rails nor the bolts and ties have been made 
available. The result is another order tjo supersede the first one and so on -- but little interes 
is taken in the Implementation of the decisions. 

Kornilov attributed 'sikilar procrastination to the Ministry of the River Fleet The latter ‘s 
failure to deliver! the! necessary building materials to the Amu-Darya construction site is dis- 
organizing the work and causing unnecessary delays. The 193 2 P laJ1 > for example, calls ior e 
delivery of one -an<l-a ! -half million tons of materials but the transportation facilities the 
Ministry has assigned! for the job will not be able to carry more than 500,000 tons. 

The situation at the South Ukrainian Candl site and Kakhovka hydroelectric power plan is reviewed 
In a lengthy decision! of the i Central Committee of the Ukrainian Communist Party (Feb. ZJ) an 
found to be "extremely Unsatisfactory." 'Labor there is said to be poorly organized, discipline 
is low, production! |cojets are far above the planned figures and the building machinery is being 
utilized with extremely poor results." ! 

The Central Committee! ialso considers it inadmissible (nedopustimo) that many laoor-consumlng 
work processes are 1 done manually while a large part of the available machinery is not utilized 
at all. Sharply criticized are the leading "economic and Party workers in charge of the mentioned 
construction who "seldom speak to the workers" and do not bother much about lectures and talks for 
them. Looking further into this construction business, the Central Committee reveals that t e 
living conditions Jof jthe workers on the project are anything but normal-., 

The! living quarters are not provided with furniture or 

household equipment .. .secretaries of Party organizations... 

! seldom ever visit the communal living quarters and do not 

! take any measures for tidying them up. 

| - | || . 

The 30-point Party declaim lays particular stress on the "creation of normal living conditions 
(sozdanle normalnlkh lusloviy zhlzni) for I the workers and the technical and professional personnel, 
and the immediate ! liquidation of the labor turnover which pr esumably has something to do with those 
living conditions: The neighboring Stalino, Dnepropetrovsk, Voroshilovgrad, Kiev, and Kharkov 
Oblasts are called upon to help relieve jthe acute shortage of skilled personnel some of which is to 




pproved For Rele^ke 2003/10/01 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000500740036-8 



Approved For Release 2003/10/01 : CIA-RDP 


- 2 - 


A-RDP8^^^9A< 


9A00050074^^ 


be made available "through the organized mobilization of labor." The Ministry of Health is urge 
to take immediate steps towards the improvement of the existing medical and sanitary aervicet,, 
the establishment of creches for workers* children and the opening of hospitals 

The appropriate Party and Soviet organizations are also ordered to insure the pj oper reception 
and economic aid for the new settlers (prereseientsi) in the collective and State farms of h 
recently reclaimed Verkhne-Ingulets and Nizhne-Ingulets irrigated areas 

Centralized control, rhythmic work: Industrial management labor discipline and 
discussed editorially in two PRAVDA issues (Feb. 19 and 25). One-man management ( .dinonachali ) 
is said to be one of the answers to such chronic industrial maladies as poor labor discipline, 
defective production, and idle machinery. I^ck of centralized control is also held responsible 
for increased production costs as has recently been revealed m a numoer of machine-building 
plants. Some of them even go so far as to expand their original production cost estimates without 
regard to the actual figures. These and other shortcomings usually annount of the unrhythmlc 
work" (nerltmichnaya rabota) which characterizes the operation of some of the largest plants of 
the Uralmet Metal Trust and the Stalinugol Coal Trust. 

Technical know-how (tekhnicheskaya gramotnost), savs the editorial of Feb 25, must be the ultimate 
aim of every Soviet industrial plant. The inadequate utilization of machinery, the paper implies, 
can be remedied only by what it calls a "precise work tempo" (chetkiy ritm raboty). This, 
however is not the case with a number of plants, particularly the Kolomna Locomotive Works and 
the Taganrog boiler -making plant, where "Jerky and fits-and starts" (ryvki i shturmovshchina) 
methods are the accepted methods of work: 

These shortcomings are due in no small measure to the 
weakening of the one -man -management (edinonachalie) 
principle.. . .the most important principle of proper 

leader ship in prcuucti or . 

Russian version: 

V nemaloy stepeni eti nedostatki obyasnyautsia 
oslable.niem edinonachalie. . .kotoroye yavlyaetsia 
vazline i shim printsipom pravllnogo rukovodstva 
pr oiz 'odstvom . 

Lumber Production Still Lagging: The' lopsided performance of the lumber industry, particularly 
in Vologda, Novosibirsk, Velikie Luki, and Pskov Oblasts, is still the target ol liequent 
editorial criticism. But whereas most of the previous newspaper strictures were directed against 
poor production quality and lack of assortment, the current complaint is that the industry is 
behind its quantitative assignments a a well. Thus SOVETSKAYA SIBIR tFeb. l6.j announces • e 
since the beginning of the year lumber production has fallen short of the target by ° 

thousands" of cubic meters. An indirect admission of the breakdown of the lumber production 
plans is contained in the paper's disparaging reference to some lumber industry officials wo 
"attempt to explain the breakdown of the plans" by claiming a lack of skilled machine opera or s. 
This claim, however, is not seriously disputed by the editorial beyond the assertion that the 
"main reason for the nonfulfillment" of the plans is the most unsatisfactory use of equipment 
and machinery: 

Of al 1 the tractors at the lumber comps only one-half are 
at vork while the rest stand idle because of all kinds of 
faults. A similar condition exists in the case of winches. 

That the labor shortage in the lumber camps is not an empty claim may be gathered from the paper's 
vague reference to the "Bolshevist care" for the welfare of the lumberjacks which is absent. 

Such conditions do not attract many volunteers to the lumber camps, and Legos tayev Rayon is 
cited as a case in point: "Only 3 men instead of 100 were sent to the lumber camps from the 
rayon..,." Production and deliveries are said to be slowest in Cherepanov, Chulymsk, Kuybyshev, 
Toguchinskly, and Kolyvansk rayons. 





Approved For Release 2003/10/01 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000500740036-8 



Approved For Release 2003/10/01 : CIA-RpP80-00809A000500740<?3$y A 


The shortcomings of the lumber industry, says VELTKOUIKSKAYA (Feb. 17), have an adverse 

effect on the over-all industrial production of the oblast The paper makes no reference to the 
shortage of labor, but such ja shortage is implicit m the appeal to the various rayon Party 
organi 7 .atio.is to send Party and Komsomol members to the camps to "set a good example ... and inspire 
the masses of workers” to greater efforts. The editorial is apparently not unmindful of the 
i nade quate living conditions in the lumber camps but does not pursue the subject beyond the 
suggestion that the trade unions and management "should show more care about the welfare... of the 
workers." More critical however, is the daily's attitude towijrd falling production, 

It should be made clear to the managers of the timber 
industry enterprises that the nonfulfillment of the plan 
is la Party and State offense , and that they will be made 
responsible for the nonfulfillment of the State plan. 

Poor labor organization, low discipline, and an indifferent altitude toward technology in general 
are, in the opinion of PSEOV'SKAYA ERAVDA (Mar. 2), responsible for the "very slaw" timber prepara- 
tions in the oblast. In some lumber trusts, the electric sav^ and other equipment received last 
year have not yet been used) while in others there is no Socialist competition among the -workers. 
The result is that a "considerable number” of lumberjacks fail to keep up with their production 


Technical equipment is also neglected or underestimated in the* Tx ana -Carpathian forest industry - 
says RADYAN5KA UKRAINA on Feb. 20. In some lumber camps, the paper declares, mobile generators, 
winches, trucks, and tractors are not fully utilized while in others they are not used at all. 
This happened, the paper sajjs, because qualified cadres were not trained. In time. 


Personnel training for the lumber and ether industries of the j Byelorussian SSR is the subject of 
editorial discussion by ZARYA (Feb. .18) . The supply of skilled workers in the Republic is said 
to be far below the demand, jand the qualifications of the supposedly trained workers are somewhat 
below expectations. The labor Reserves Administration is upbraided fox 'not exercising efficient 
control" over the training schools, and the Byelorussian Society for the Dissemination of Political 
and Scientific Knowledge is Ihe.ld responsible for the inadequate technical education of the 
graduating personnel. Tne lack of technical knowledge is felj, particularly in Mi nss wnich is a 
large industrial center . Tills point Is not elaborated, however. 

The shortage of skilled workers is .also acute at a number of unnamed construction sites along the 
Dnieper River, and this, says RADYAFSKA UKRAINA (Feb., 20), is something to worry about: 

New excavators, bulldozers, ditch diggers, motor vehicles 
and other machines are arri ving there daily. The first 
suction dredges have been assembled. But. who will take the 
controls of these machines" who will operate them? These 
questions cannot but worry the Party organizations...,. 

MOLOT (Feb. 27) believes that the shortage- of skilled workers in Rostov Oblast could have been 
alleviated if the method of "reshuffling personnel" were not substituted for the "genuine 
training of cadres." Id. the Gundurov Coal Trust alone, for example, 5 chiefs of pits, 8 chief 
engineers, and 11 section cliiefs were replaced within one year. One section chief was removed four 
times "for bad organization of work" and reappointed tc the same Job every time. "Serious weak- 
ness" in the cadre training ! system are noted particularly in Jfrasniy Sulin, Selivanovskly , 
Nikolayevskiy , and a number of other 1 rayons and towns. 


Railroads:; The martial law | proclaimed during the last war on { the Soviet railroads has never been 
officially abolished and is presumable still in effect. Radio and press references to discipline 
among railway workers are infrequent since the power of the Political Department instituted under 
the martial, law is virtually unlimited. A FRIZYV editorial (Feb.. 20) oddly enough discusses the 
performance of the Vladimir Oblast railwaymen and suggests th t "a tightening of discipline is 
whac they really need.. This, the paper continues, appl: es not only to the scheduled movement of 
trains but also to such enterprises as depots and repair shops, the signal system, and others. The 
railroad workers are reminded that "every commitment" mad? i.nl the letter to Stalin by all the USSR 
railwaymen (Home Service, Aug, 4, 1.952) must be honored c.i time. It is also suggested that an 
improvement of the Party organizations and groups within the railroad system might do a great deal 
toward a better performance I on the part of the workers, I 




Approved For Release 2003/10/01 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000500740036-8 



Approved For Release 2003/10/01 : CIA-J 



25X1A 



Another complaint that all is not 'veil, on the railroads cone-.- from KOMMUNIST (Feb. 19). The 
Ryazan -Uralsk railroad line Is said to have put in a poor performance last year, and that a 
fundamental improvement in its work... Is not evident this year." Timetables are often violated 
and the line is unable to cope with the planned car loadings, particularly m regard to cement, 
timber* and "other important" goods. The paper wonders why the Railroad Political Department has 
failed 'to "Intensify" its political control over the work, and why the 25-point program it had 
mapped out has "never passed the written stage." 

Mining. The only reference to thia industry' is heard, in a broadcast from Dnepropetrovsk on 
5>*7' 19,, 2AHYA declares editorially that the Krivoy Rog ore basin is *«tm very far from 
satisfying the ... demands" of the ferrous industry'. In January a number of mines fell below 
the plan, and in February the work "deteriorated still further." The amount of ore ready for 
extraction soys the paper, is considerably below the quota. Rut that ia not all.. l.t appears 
that in the race for quantity production quality is relegated to a place of secondary importance. 
The Lenin Ore Trust, for example, which regularly fulfills its extraction plans, Is juet as 
consistent in its failure to achieve the required quality of the ore. 

Ideological Weaknesses The output on ideological affairs le meager, and most of the available 
material - appeared in the pres* but, was not broadcast., trnlike previous discussions on the theme, 
FRAVDA and regional criticism of un-Marxist behavior is restrained,. Official attention is still 
focused on the peripheral areas of the USSR — j Moldavia, the. Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and. Uzbekistan. 

Stage production in the Moldavian SSR, says Subbotin in FRAVDA (Feb. IT.*,. is not in keeping with 
the "great transformation" (ve.likoye preobrazovanie* that characterizes life in Soviet Moldavia.. 

The author lists a number of plays which, despite the playwrights’ good intentions, appear in a 
somewhat distorted ideological light. Bellamys "Yolshebnaya Bulavn" (Magic Mace) , based on the 
idea of Moldavian-Russian friendship, has utterly failed to convey that idea to the public. 

Few Russian or Soviet plays, according to Subbotin, ever find their way to the Moldavian stage, ana 
anything dealing with contemporary Soviet life is virtually ignored, 

V1LNA UKPAU1A (Feh, 20 ) says that traces of Ukrainian bourgeois nationalism, are still very much in 
evidence., presumably in the Western provinces of the Republic. The Ukrainian public enemy number 
one, the bourgeois nationalists, acting at the behest of the ter Lean imperialists, are. even said 
to he dreaming of dominating other nations. 

/They) are trying to stir up hostility among the 
people of the Soviet country and to impose the 
Ukrainian people and culture upon the other peoples 
of the Soviet. Union,. 


Ukrainian version: 

Famnkhayutsia rozpalyty vorozmytsiu mizh narodami 
radyonskoi krainy, nakinuty ukr ainslcy norci 1 ikh 
kul turn irtshym narodam Soyuza SSR.. 

Inferring that the enemy of the Ukranian p-eople has been physically eliminated by the "crushing 
defeat" inflicted on him, the paper refers to the "back-sliders." end the "remnants" of capitalism 
which have not yet been "uprooted." in the country! 

The Forty organizations must remember that these back- 
sliders of Ukrainian bourgeois nationalism are evidence 
of an underrating of the role of the friendship between the 
Ukrainian and Russian peoples. 


Ukrainian version;. 


Par t jyny organ i zatsyji povinny pamyatoty she bo v nevy- 
korer.riykii retsedi vakh ukralnsltoho bur zbua mono 
nota lonalismu. ye vypadki koly proyavlautsia nedootsinka 
roll druzbby ukrainekoho i rossiyskoho narodu. 


Approved For Release 2003/10/01 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000500740036-8 



25X1 A 

0005 00740036-8 


Approved For Release 2003/10/01 : ClA-RDEgOgj^gA 

- - CWHPWH* 

A report from Alma-Ata (Feb. 18) adverts to the old official contention that the history of 
Kazakhstan is still full of ideological loopholes * and that the vhole thing smacks of anti-Marxism: 

So fax , no deep scientific Marxist history of Kazakhstan has 
been written , and the significance of same national movements 
in the history of Kazakhstan has, up to very recently, been 
incorrectly elucidated, in an anti-Marxist vay and from a 
bourgeois nationalist standpoint. 

All these misinterpretations, says the report, axe now being corrected in Shuimbayev' s pamphlet 
under the long title "Against Nationalist Perversions in the Exposition of the Reactionary 
Feudal -Monarch! chal Movement of Temlssara Kasymov." This pamphlet is said to "prove" that 
Kazakhstan's unity and security dates back to its union vith Tsarist Russia. Prior to that 
there was nc Kazakh country as such but a number of warring feudal principalities who were 
"systematically" attacked by outside non-Russian forces; 

Even at the end of the seventeenth and beginning of the 
eighteenth centuries Kazakhstan was attacked by Dzhungar feudal 
lords who robbed and destroyed the country. Only with the 
assistance of Russia and the acceptance by the Kazakhs of Russian 
citizenship was the threat of subjugation of the Kazakh people 
by Dzhungaria eliminated. 

Russian version: 

Eshche v kontse senmadtsatogo 1 nachale vosemnadtsatogo 
vekov na Kazakhstan napali dzhungar r V ie feodaly, grabivshie d 
razoryavshie stranu. Tolk.o blagodarya pamoshchi Russil i 
prinyatlu kazakhami. . .rossiyekogo poddanstva byla likvidlrovana 
ugroza poraboshchenia kazakhskogo naroda dzhungar ley. 

Serious mistakes of a principle nature (seryoznie printsipialnie oshibki) have been discovered 
in the "History of the Peoples of Uzbekistan", according to a Sitov report published tn FRAVDA 
on Feb. 27. The recent plenary session of the Central Committee of the Uzbek Communist Party 
is reported to have taken another look, into the Republic's ideological life and found :Lt less 
austere than expected. Like their Kazakh neighbors, to the north, the Uzbeks are said to 
"underestimate" the significance of their unification with Russia tn the last century: 

The inclusion of Uzbekistan as a component part of Russia... 
was of great progressive significance for the Uzbek people. 

A thorough study of this question Is one of the essential 
problems of historical science. 

Russian version: 

Vkluchente Uzbekistana v sostav Rossil . . .imelo bolshoye 
progress! vnoye znachenie dlia uzbekekago naroda. Izuchenie 
etogo voprosa yavlayet.sia odnoi iz oktualnilch zadach 
istoricheskoi nauk.i . 


The Ministry of Education and the Uzbek Writers Union are taken to task for the unaccountable 
laxity in their respective spheres of' enlightenment. The Uzbek writers, the Central Committee 
reveals, have not produced a single "monumental" work, from the ideological standpoint, in 
the postwar period. The works of some men of letters still betray nationalistic tendencies. 
Similar aberrations are attributed to the publishers of children's literature wherein admiration 
for the feudal lords, their love affairs, etc. is often quote obvious. Same textbooks contain 
adulation for the Moslem tyrants of the Orient and are "fouled up with Arabic and Persian 
terminology which is not understood by the Soviet schorl children" (zasoreny arabskimi, 
persidskimi terminaml, neponiatnymi sovetskim shkolnikam) . 



Approved For Release 2003/10/01 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000500740036-8