P96-00789R0021 001 5001 5-7 


Approved For Release 2001 A 



GRILL FLAME VOLUNTEER CONSENT STATEMENT 


SGFOIA3 


AjsUUIA /V- , ssan 

having attained by eighteenth (, 18 th) birthday ancRERerwSs^^^ 
having full capacity to consent, do hereby volunteer to 
participate in GRILL FLAME, a DOD project to determine possible 
military applications of inherent psychic abilities. The fol- 
lowing items have been explained to me by 

and are set forth on the reverse side of this Agreement, which 
I have initialed: 

a. The nature, duration, purposes, and expected benefits 
of the program in which I will be participating; 

b. The methods and means by which the program is to be 
conducted; any methods and means that are experimental will be 
identified as such; 

c. The inconveniences, hazards, discomforts, risks or other 
effects on my health or person which may possibly come from my 
participation in the program; 

d. The alternative procedures, if any, that might be 
employed to protect further my health and well-being. I have 
been given an opportunity to ask questions concerning this 
project and any such questions have been answered to my full 
and complete satisfaction. I understand that I may at any 
time during the course of this project revoke my consent and 
withdraw from the study without prejudice; however, I may be 
requested to undergo certain further examinations, if, in the 
opinion of a qualified physician, such examinations are neces- 
sary for my health or well-being. 







(NAME) 


^ 3c ^ J 

(DATE) 


I was present during the explanation referred to above, as 
well as the volunteer's opportunity for questions, and hereby 
witness his signature. I am not involved in the GRILL FLAME 
program in any way. 


(NAME) 


(DATE) 


Approved For Release 2001 It 


P96-00789R0021 001 5001 5-7 



Approved For Release 2001 /OC 


m, 

ly? 


E^96-00789Rb021 001 5001 5-7 


1 . Explanation of experiments , including 
purpose and expected benefits. Must include 
no hypnosis, drugs, or other psychopharmacolo 
or treatment of research subjects by sublimin 
or other means of stimulation unknown to them 
in this program. (Standard) 

2. Explanation of procedures, including metb 
by which conducted and an indication of those 
means that are experimental. 

3. Description of reasonably expected inconv 
discomfort, risks, or other effects. (Standa 

4. Description of any alternative procedures 
employed to protect further the subject healt 
state. (Standard) 

5 . Description of alternative advantages to 
(Standard) 

6 . Status of volunteer ' s health as determine 
Include EKG results. 

7. Questions posed by volunteer and answers 


Note: Volunteer will initial end of each of 


nature, duration, 
tatement that 
dical agents, 

II -technologies 
' are involved. \ 


<j)ds and means 
methods and 


£riiences, hazards, 
d) 

that might be 
h. If none, so 


volunteer , 


d by a physician, 


Approved For Release 


above paragraphs 


15-7