25X1 



Jg WqgBG OF T SERVICE COIAvIITTEE MEETING 

3 December 195>1 - U:00 P.M. 


Present: F. Trubee Davison - AD/Personnel 

Matthew Baird - Director of Training 

25X1 A9A 


1. The minutes of the 8th and 9th meetings were approved as 
distributed. 

2. No specific action was taken on the Statement regarding 
Personnel Policy. 

3. The membership of the Working Group on Trainees and the Working 
Group on Extension Training was discussed. No changes were made in the 
Working Group on Extension Training. The membership of the Working Group 
on Trainees was modified as follows: 


25X1A9A 


James Angleton, QSQ (original member) 


This Working Group will have to select a new Chairman 

may be only a temporary 


25X1A9A 

(Note: 
to replace 
member . ) 

it. There was discussion of the dual role which each member of a 
Working Group must perform, namely, a.) his responsibility to his Assistant 
Director or Office Head for ensuring that the views, data, and plans of his 
Office are thoroughly considered, and b.) his responsibility to the DCI, 
through the Career Service Committee, to devise on an Agency-wide basis a 
practical and effective Career Service Program. It was agreed that 
General Davison would discuss this matter at the next meeting of the 
Assistant Directors with the DCI. 

3. The Parachute Jump Pay problem (No. 3 of the agenda) which was 
referred back to the Career Service Committee by the Senior Review Committee 
was back 






CONPIDLimAI, 



25X1A9A 


to the Working Group on Career Benefits hut would henceforth be handled 
directly by the Office of Training with the Deputy Direc tor/ Administration. 


6. The report of the Working Group on Rotation regarding | ^ 

recommendation re handling certain high-level key personnel was received 
and discussed. It was agreed that this matter would henceforth be handled 
by the AD/Personnel directly with the ADD/ Administration (Special), 


7. The tentative drafts of the Selection Criteria Working Group, 
"Selection Criteria for Participation in CIA Career Service Program" and 
"Centralization of Selection for Participation in the CIA Career Service 
Program", were examined , briefly discussed, and tabled for further consid- 
eration. 


8. The recommendations of the Working Group on Career Benefits 
concerning the "Continuance of Pay and Allowances" and the Senate Bill S. 1820 
was discussed and referred back to that Working Group for specific recom- 
mendations as to how the Bill should be modified from its present text in 
order to meet the requirements of CIA. 


9. Plans for the circulation of the results achieved (minutes or 
summaries of minutes) by each Working Group to all other Working Groups 
were discussed. It was agreed that the text to be circulated would be 
available to the Career Service Committee for clearance prior to actual 
circulation. It was also agreed that these texts would be clearly marked 
as working papers for the convenience and information of the Working Groups 
and would not be considered necessarily approved by the Career Service 
Committee. 


sn 


10. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee will be held 
Monday, 10 December 19 £l, at h:00 P.M. in Room ll£, North Building. 


11. The meeting adjourned at %:10 P.M. 


25X1 A9A 


Executive Secretary 


[feONFIDEWTlAJi 



> 00400060013-9