Declassified and Approved For Release 2012/02/08 : CIA-RDP91-00561R000100100027-1 


CINCINNATI ENQUIRER (OH) 
28 May 1986 



CIA Director Casey publicizes 
the problem of intelligence leaks 

If the charges against NBC prove That action suggests that NBC had 
valid, the television network has second thoughts, whether because of 
gravely jeopardized the security of the Mr. Casey or because of a belated 
United States and violated the respon- sense of responsibility is hard to de- 
sibility that American media must ob- termine. If the latter, NBC was too 
serve. late. The damage was done. 

But if Centra l Int elligen ce Agen cy The fact is, however, that reports 
Director William J. Casey is simply on the supposed project appeared in at 
trying to prove a point by harassing a least two mayor news publications 
news outlet that reported information slightly more than a rfecadf ago. 
already public knowledge, then the Where was the governmental fury 
government had better stop blaming then? 

the media and continue to'sharpen its Government secrets are necessari- 
internal-security measures. ly going to be part of the trial of 

Mr. Casey is seeking charges Ronald WJfelton, former employee of 
against NBC for revealing intelligence the National Security Agency, who iff' 
information. He intends to prosecute accused of selling information to the 
news agencies that reveal such infor- Soviets. His case prompted the NBC 
mation. His effort is part of the admin- report. Keeping some testimony se- 
istration’s attempt to plug leaks in cret, as prosecutors are attempting, 
government. Previously, he had will be a major task, 
threatened prosecution of other news Although he qualified his accusation 
organizations for reporting on U.S. against NBC by adding an “if true” to 
intelligence operations regarding Lib- the network’s report, Mr. Casey gave 
ya. a validity to the report that he obvi- 

But the most efficient way to con- ou§ly wanted to avoid. It may have 
tain a leak is at the source; trying to been impossible to do otherwise. Even 
mop up later simply spreads the trou- without his accusation, the report 
ble, as this case shows. would have been publicized, though 

NBC reported information about a perhaps not as dramatically. 

“secret” project with the Code name The government has been trying to 
“Ivy BeBs,” under which U.S. subma- stop leaks at the source by firing 
rines supposedly eavesdrop in Soviet those found guilty within its ranks, but 
waters. NBC did so once, in a morning it needs to be sterner and quicker. At 
newscast During its evening show, it the same, the irresponsible among the 
avoided specific mention of the proj- media need to be reminded that our 
ect, but referred to Mr. Casey’s country’s safety comes before a news 
threatened charges. beat. Always. 


FILE ONLY 


Declassified and Approved For Release 2012/02/08 : CIA-RDP91 -00561 R0001 001 00027-1