12 March 1?S2 


25X1 A9a 


25X1 A 


25X1 A 


25X1 A 


MEMORANDUM FOR* Assistant Director for Collection and Dissemination 


tmut 

FROM* 

SUBJECT* 


CIA Top Secret Control Officer 
Chief, Central Services 

W^mm c 'rg«'.ization and Methods Examiner 

Second Interim Report on Survey of CIA fop 
Secret Control System 


. A * of Report* The purpose of this second interim report 

♦ L„ re * U8St t*° U f ftttwntion to several general security problems that 
the examiner has become aware of during the course of the survey. 

These problems are, briefly* * 

. }' Kansi-carrying of documents by CIA officials to locations 
outside the CIA area. 

2. Regulation regarding authority ana responsibility of 
Alternates and Aseistanta in the T£C syetem. 

3. Classification and transmission of TS weekly logs. 

h« System for review of documents to avoid over-classification. 
Problems and Recommendations ; 

and ® t Rt ® ®* ” Tha CI ^ Top Secret Control Officer 

and Area and Alternate Top Secret Control Officers are the only 
persons who shall be permitted to transmit and receipt for Top 
5 ^f®: ® aterial aovlitg between CIA and outside agencies”. CIA 
officials frequently find it operationally required that they 
hand-carry TS documents to and from meetings outside CIA. It 1® 
suggested that this practice shoul d be officially recognised by 
the establishment under Regulation , 0 fa category 

h<5ads are re8 l )onsibie for the designation of 
persons In their offices, other than Alternate and Assistant To p 
Secret Control Officers, who they deem are operationally required 
to hand-carry Top Secret material outside CIA for a period of not 

ffiiinlwT ““L T? *" ” t “ ro,d *> cu >»for 6 cXos. 

# and they are further responsible for insuring that 

necessary controls are exercised to confine the number of such 

persons to a minimum and that documents are hand-carried only 

after clearance through Top Secret Control channels" . 

coMStnrNTlAL 

Approved For Release 2001/04/23 : ClA-RDPS^-Qpjj^aAOfirfWOI 00022-4 



Approved For Release 2001/04/23 : CIA-RDP57- 


00042AA0C11 00 100022^ 

-UNi iOiiiM I SAL 

Security Information 


- 2 - 


25X1 A 


2* Regulation 


Infer® that Assistant 


Top Secret Control Officers are authorised to transmit ana 
receipt for documents sieving anywhere within CIA. It is 
rec omm ended that the regulation be revised to restrict Assist- 
ant© to transmission and control of documents only within their 
immediate area, such as division or Staff office. This is 
considered operationally desirable to facilitate a tighter 
control and channelling of documents through Area TSCO’s. 


}, Top Secret logs are transmitted weekly from all Areas 
and Sub-Stations to the Central Top Secret Control Office. 

These logs contain full titles of documents, a® well as sources. 

It is recommended that these logs should be transmitted only 
by officer courier or Alternate TECO. 

it* To overcome the problem of over-classification of 
documents by the originator, the following procedure is recommended 
for consideration. Office heads would designate a limited number 
of persons in the various divisions and staff offices to review 
objectively each document originated by that office, for tbs 
purpose of approval or disapproval of a classification of Top 
Secret of Secret proposed by the originator, '’'he reviewer should 
be thoroughly indoctrinated by IIS as to the criteria to be 
applied in determining classification®. 


CONRDfcNIIAL 

Security Information 


Approved For Release 2001/04/23 : CIA-RDP57-00042A0001 001 00022-4