Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/02/22 : CIA-RDP91 -00561 R0001 000401 10-5 
STAT 

ARTICLE APPEARED CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR 

ON PAG E cA» 21 January 1932 



By Richard L Stroui • a presidential term has proceeded; Mr. 

- ' Washington Reagan has finished up his ‘^honeymoon” 
Some people think you couldn’t run period after his first year; now the novelty 
Washington without news leaks. Washing- ^ of his personality and way of handlin'* Con- 
don is probably the most open capital in the— gress have moved into the next stage! This 

WO w d * o vis apt to create a more competitiveandof- 

Has it gone too far? Some officials here ten a more combative relationship with the 


Capita! of Leaks 1 


press. The midterm election comes next 
and then 1984. , 

The relationship' of the press and the 



have submitted themselves to lie detector 
tests in order to prove they were not the 

onesleaMng material to the press. .'C:/; . illc or me press ana the 

President Reagan at this week’s press— . president in Washington is symbiotic: both 
conference said, “I do- think it reached- a>~gain from the other: The president can and 
new high here, of the leaks that were de-— does use the media to present his program, 
structive of the foreign policy we were try^ favorably;', the media are eager to get the 
mg to conduct, that endangered delicate ner*~ r news’-, and to- question ; their favorite 

gotiations ” Some officials say there is . “source” about what it means. The rela- 

cause for genuine alarm; others take a ho- Stionship is so important that regular confer- 
hum attitude and recall there had been coo-' A enees and briefings are held e very day and 
cern about leaks (perhaps justified) long, craven obscure governmental agencies have 

before President Kennedy told his press" - 

secretary, Pierre Salinger,, to run down the-*; 

source of a particular leak and got the re— 

port that the culprit was Kennedy himself, : ;-'i press officers. Nobody can precisely differ" 
The American system of separation of - , entiate a legitimate piece of supplementary 
powers does much to make Washington the '.information from a deliberate “leak.”’. _ . 
Capital of Leaks.' Under a parliamentary kaS Nearly every new Washington adminis- 
system, the front - french government tration goes through a period of irritation or 
spokesmen confront the opposition ahd tie- - anger over leaks, though there is a ten-- 
bate matters of publieconcem in detail. In dency to accommodate itself to it after ' 
Washington; the give and take of the presi- ^awhile. It learns that leaking is a two-way 
dential press conference sometimes fulfills ;- game, and it can become more-adept at it. : 
the same purpose, but this varies by presi- r ; i - In rare cases, .the administration under-'- 
dent; Franklin Roosevelt bad 998 press con- . - takesa general counterattack. In President w 
ferences in 12 years; Ronald Reagan has Nixon’s day,i this went so far as a challenge 
held seven in a year. The FDR conferences to the legitimacy of the media itself, a cam- 
were on radio, and the. President was ' paign carried on by Vice-President Spiro T. 
quoted in the third person. Mr. Reagan’s ;Agnew. A 1979 stady found hangovers from 
voice and expression are immediately visi- •?.: this attack, in the form of “popular dissatis- 
ble on television. ; -.y ;.v^ ; • - ; *v; • : r> faction with, and hostility toward, the news - 

Meantime, the traditional progression of . media,” with portions of the public neither 


believing the administration nor the report- 
ers writing about it. ' . •• 

President Reagan is handling the 
present situation gently. A recent Time 
, magazine article notes that the Wall Street 
Journal disclosed a State Department 
memo discussing ways of putting pressure 
on the military regime in Poland. The arti- 
cle also referred to Washington Post re- 
ports on “a secret Pentagon study indicat- 
ing that military costs over the next five- 
years may be $750 billion more than now' 
projected.” - , ..: 3 - • - — _ 

T Mr. Reagan told his Jan. 19 press' confer- 
■ ence: “I’ve been told repeatedly that What 
is happening is nothing new. that it’s been 
- done under other administrations.” He in- 
sisted.-however, that the situation has be- 
come serious and said he has assigned his 
new national security adviser, William 
Clark, to look into it.. Disclosing- classified 
government material is a crime, he noted. 

- A dew guideline says; “All contacts with 
:any element of the news media in which 
classified National Security Council mat- . 
ters or classified intelligence information - 
are discussed will require the advance ap- 
proval of a , senior official. Iq the event of 
unauthorized disclosure. . . . government 
employees who have had access to that in- 
formation will be subject to investigation to . 
include the use of all legal methods.”-' - ; - - 
Washington waits to see how the new in- 
vestigation and-the new relationship be- 
tween government and media works out. 
Since Franklin' Roosevelt’s day, the press 
community here has -been largely -. self- 
policed. The relationship is difficult- be- 
cause there are no precise rules. But gener-. 
ally the system works reasonably well. 



Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2012/02/22 : CIA-RDP91 -00561 R0001 000401 10-5