CLASSinCATlON CONFBDENTIAL 

Approved FeER^f«aas^l^M«L1(JS«CEPWBB«BV2-00457l^^ 

IMFOBMATION REPORT cd no. 25xia 




COUNTRY Chiiia/Boag Koag 

SUBJECT Oilna Maroihaats Stoaa fiavigatim 
Company Para oaaol ia Hong Koag 

PLACE 
ACQUIRED 

DATE OF 
INFO. 



DATEDiSTR 3 JTJL 50 
NO. OF PAGES 2 

NO, OF ENCLS. 

(USTEO BELOW) 

SUPPLEMENT TO 
REPORT NO. SO-41898 



25X1 X 

le So 3 Ka SOO Ghinasa oraw luombera of OiSiJC ahipa in Hoag Kcmg^ ranging from 
maatars to ordinary soaniaa;, are baing paid monthly salariaa from Paipiog..* 

Tha total monthly paymont, which is made throi^ the Bank of carxina, amounts 
to Hoag Koag #600., 000^. including salariae and the costs of naiatenanca of 
tha ships, la order to reduoa expenses . the Qiinose Communist government 
took advantage of the local shortage of warehouses and rented out eoim of 
the vessels as floating warehouses 

Security checks have been completed on all crew members » and they are to be 
retained ly the Communists, While they are idle in Hong Kong, Peiping 
authorities have requested that the study of Commuaism and the Sew i^emooraoy 
be undertaken for a minimum period of three hours each day. Textbooks are 
supplied by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), and weekly and monthly 
examinations are held. After the ooKopletioa of the first two basic courses 
in Communist theory, a third course, including the advanced study of navi- 
gation and other technical subjects designed to increase the efficiency of 
the crews, was to be offered. The study of the Russian language was 
optional, but some of the crow members had already undortaken it, under 
teachers from Rorth China and Ijinohuria. 

3* Representatives of iho CCP supervise all the training, and make us© of trusted 
issii^ers of the crews to control the private lives of the m>no lloat of the 
crew members are living aboard their ships, but sonwi are housed ashore at 
addresses registered with the CCP* Since they have been treated well and have 
received money regularly, the men do not oosyplain too strenuously about their 
enforced study. They tend to feel that they have nowhere to turn except to 
CoiwBunism, and some have become oonvinoed of the future success of Gomaiuaiat 
Qiinao 


The Eong Kong authorities, disapproving of Coiiminist political Indoctrination 
being carried on within the Colony, began unofficial negotiations for 
stopping the program on the (MSMC ships, 
promising attitude of the ConHaunistso 


but wei 




STATE 

H 

NAVY #|X 

NSRB 

n 

DIS^IBUTION 1 

“ 


P 



w;my 4 


AtR 1 

m 


ttt: mznz 

lI 


□ 


izj 


This document is hereby regraded to 
CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the , 
letter of 16 October 1978 from the I 
Director of Central Intelligence to the | 
Archivist of the United States. 

Next Review Date: 2008 

Approved For Release 2001/11/26 : CIA-RDP82-00 457R00S 1 00630015-4 — 


CONFIDENTIAL 







Approved For Release 20D.T7-n72B'7Tlg-roP aCTW 57R0051 0063001 5-4 

OOSFpEJTIAL 25X1 A 

CKNTRAL INiDELLlOfiMCB AGENCY 
- 2 - 


5. One outgrowth of the i^nemploymont of these and other Chinese), including 
thousands of former irfationalist employees who are seeking work with the 
Communists, has been the draining of foreign currency from mainland China. 
Although some foreign currenoy is entering Communist China through Shanghai 
foreign businessmen who must maintain offices and staffs in Qiina, the 
necessity of paying Hong Aong defectors is proving a steady drain on the 
inadequate supplies of foreign exchange possessed by the Qiinese Communist 
govermnent. 



CQMFIDMTIAL 



Approved For Releai 


1-00457R005 1 00630015-4