STAT 


i 

Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2010/07/06 : CIA-RDP90-00552R000201 290055-9 


'RETICLE ’APxlEARED 
'flU_rA03 (\-\ „ 


By Patrick E. Tyler 

Washington PostStatfWrttw 

The -Justice Department said yes- 
terday that it has found no evidence 
of espionage in the case of the 25- 
year-old nuclear missile officer who 
was charged Friday by- the Air Force 
with making unauthorized, visits to the 
Soviet Embassy here. 

Department spokesman John ■ KE 
Russell said that the case was never; 
formally referred to federal prosecu- 
tors, but added, “We are advised of ip; 
it is a military matter. We’re not in- 
vestigating it, we’re not going to pros- 
ecute it, for sure.” - - ; 

Russell declined to reveal details' 
that would explain why the young; 
officer, 2nd Lt Christopher M. Cooke,! 
made three trips to the Russian Em-i 
bassy last December and during May.,, 

“What I’m saying is that we don’t! 
have a case,” Russell said. “We have 
taken a look at the facts of the sit-, 
uation and the. legal issues and con- 
sider it to be a strictly military matter 
and not in the jurisdiction of the De- 
partment of. Justice.” 

If there were evidence of espionage,; 
Russell said, Justice Department of- 
ficials would take jurisdiction of the 
case, as the department has in the 
past “We do not think, we have an 
espionage case in this matter,” he said. 

Cooke, the deputy crew commander ! 
of a Titan nuclear missile team sta- 
tioned at McConnell Air Force Base 
near Wichita, Kan., was charged with 
violating Air Force regulations against 
unauthorized contact with represen- 
tatives of a communist government . . 


THE WASHINGTON POST 
1 JUNE 1981 

• rr ■ ~ 

No Evidence Seen 
Of Espionage by -4 
Missile; Officer -/■- - 

'"-'Only sketchy 'details of Cooke ’3 ac-j 
tivitiea have been pieced together 
from interviews with his family, Air 
Force attorney and friends, but they 
suggest that Cooke was discovered in 
some unauthorized activity by Air 
;• Force security personnel He was then 
enlisted to cooperate in an Air Force 
investigation for which he was prom- 
ised imm unity from prosecution and 
iari .honorable discharge, according to 
his lawyer and parents. ;■ 

"But whatever agreement Cooke had! 
-or thought he had seemed to evap- 1( 
torate with the filing of the charges. : H 
> — Cooke, who had access to top secret 
codes and weapon technology in the 
Titan silos beneath Kansas farmland, 
had unsuccessfully sought a career in 
the Central Intelligence Agency, his 
parents of Richmond, Va. said. 

;! ‘Tin well aware he did something- 
he shouldn’t have done,” Mrs. Richard 
C. Cooke told United Press Interna- 
tional, adding, T’m in disagreement 
with how the Air Force handled this.” 

Cooke’s father, asked if he thought 
his son was involved in a security, 
breach, said, “I had him for 25 years 
and there is no way of knowing pos- 
itively. I don’t have any doubt that 
there is something more to this than 
what we know. He wasn’t in it [any 
unauthorized activity) to make money, 
I can’t conceive of that, I know.” A. 

! A native of Portsmouth, Va., Cooke 
was graduated magna cum laude from 
•Old Dominion University and joined 
the Air Force in December, 1979. 

«. • James Litsey, a former Titan mis- 
sile commander and Wichita lawyer, 
said yesterday in an interview that he 
! thinks the Titan security could have 
been seriously compromised by 
Cooke’s visit He said Cooke’s job re-! 


quired a top-secret security clearance 
and gave him access not only to secret 
code books' necessary in the launch 
cycle of a Titan, but also important 
code message formats. 

“To me, that’s probably the greatest 
of the potential harms,” Litsey said. 
“If they [the Russians) get a message 
format, SAC [Strategic Air Command] 
will have to redo everything from the 
ground up.” . 

Defense Department officials have 
pointed out that the firing codes 
themselves are changed frequently. 
■But the formats, the numbers, -kinds 
and order of words used in a code, are 
riot changed often. 

During an actual nuclear crisis, Lit- 
sey said, Russian knowledge of the 
code formating system could allow the 
Soviets to send bogus radio messages 
to Titan silos with authentic-sounding 
launch orders. Such a tactic could 
cause the missile crews to “stop and 
go through the code book to see if it 
was a valid message or. not” 

■ The Russians “could use it to ut- 
terly confuse the retaliatory forces,” 
Litsey said. 

The Titan is the oldest missile in 
the American nuclear arsenal and car- 
ries the largest warhead. Cooke was 
assigned, as the second-ranking officer 
in a crew of four that mars each of 
the 17 silcs operated ; around the 
‘McConnell base. ' . ■•’’ ** 

Cooke remained in - custody at 
McConnell awaiting the decision of 
Brig. Gen. Elmer T. Brooks on wheth- 
er to release him from detention 
pending a military trial 

Ccoke’9 mother told United Press 
International that the FBI contacted 
another of their sons, Richard Cooke 
Jr., in March and questioned him : 
about his elder brother’s financial sta- 

tu \ ■ -H 

Air Force security men searched the 
Cooke home twice, during May, Mrs. 
Cooke said. Cooke, himself was de- 
tained during most of May at Langley 
Air Force Base in Virginia. 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2010/07/06 : CIA-RDP90-00552R000201 290055-9