« 

1 




Approved For Relezw* 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83 


^ F"*» m* y* v p* 

h L b ll L £ 


-01 004R0002^(f50 S 00rJt^rk:^- 


, 

j DD/S ?/;,3 f /,/"! 


OGC 71-1318 


3 September 1971 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Support 

SUBJECT: Request for Exception to Agency Regulations 

REFERENCE: 22 Jul 71 Memo fr FMSAC for DDS, Same 

Subj ect 


1. As you are aware, for many years the Agency has taken 
the position that its employees are not subject to the various laws 
relating to overtime, hours of work, holiday pay, etc. These 
various provisions were originally in the Federal Employees Pay 
Act of 1945. Having once reached the position that we are not 
subject to these laws, the Deputy Director for Support is authorised 
to establish appropriate regulations regarding these matters. 

2. In the past the Deputy Director for Support has exercised 
his authority to establish exceptions to existing regulations in special 
situations where they seemed warranted. Two cases come to mind, 
namely, Vietnam and Laos. Consequently, a decision whether to 
approve FMSAC’s request is a pure policy question within the 
authority of the Deputy Director for Support. 

3. It is noted that there are other situations in the Agency 
where the actual hours of work do not correspond to prescribed 
regulations. Apparently, in some of these situations the time 
worked is reported in accordance with Agency regulations but not 
in accordance with the actual hours worked. In our view, each 

of these situations should be examined so that if a work week is 
at variance with the regulations it would receive, if warranted, 


vh; 


£ i L, ft 


Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83-O1OO4ROOO2OOO506W4 




express Deputy Director for Support approval as an exception. 
Reporting hours wox‘ked on a basis different from the actual 
facts could result in claims for additional overtime, holiday, 
or night pay. Were such claims presented, they would have 
to be adjudged on. the basis of the policy expressed in existing 
regulations . 

4. In summary, it is believed that all hours worked and 
the reporting of them should be in accordance with Agency regu- 
lations or as otherwise approved by the Deputy Director for 
Support. 


25X1 A 


V^Actmg General Counsel 



Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83-01004R000200050004-4 




Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83-01004R000200050004-4 


isi.bUL I 


express Deputy Director for Support approval as an exception. 
Reporting hours worked on a basis different from the actual 
facts could result in claims for additional overtime, holiday, 
or night pay. Were such claims presented, they would have 
to be adjudged on the basis of the policy expressed in existing 
regulations . 

4. In summary, it is believed that all hours worked and 
the reporting of them should be in accordance with Agency regu- 
lations or as otherwise approved by the Deputy Director for 
Support. 


V^Acting General Counsel 


i 

j 

i 


j 


25X1 A 



Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83-01004R000200050004-4 




Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : 



* 7 





express Deputy Director for Support approval as an exception. 
Reporting hours worked on a basis different from the actual 
facts could result in claims for additional overtime, holiday, 
or. night pay. Were such claims presented, they would have 
to be adjudged on the basis of the policy expressed in existing 
regulations. 


4. In summary, it is believed that all hours worked and 
the reporting of them should be in accordance with Agency regu- 
lations or as otherwise approved by the Deputy Director for 
Support. 



acting General Counsel 


25X1A 




Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83-01004R000200050004-4 




Approved For ReleasA2fl^Ogoggc E8bfl^B^ O( ffnBpp 0gBEO5QgO4-4 

FEDEBAL EMPLOYEES' 
NEWS DIGEST 

EDITED BY JOSEPH YOUNG 

GOVERNMENT COLUMNIST - WASHINGTON (D.C.) STAR-NEWS 

PUBLISHED IN WASHINGTON, D. C. ★ DIRECTED TO FIELD PERSONNEL 

Vol. 22, No. 22 January 15, 19 73 ZZZ~ Washington, D.C. 


FRINGES VS. PAY-The Nixon administration has let it be known that any improved fringe benefits 
won by federal employees this year may come at the expense of the size of their next scheduled pay 
raise. The Postal Service is expected to take the same attitude in bargaining with postal employees. 

Administration officials say that annual industry adjustments, upon which comparable federal 

salaries are based, often involve both salary raises and fringe benefits in one single compensation 
package. 1 

Therefore, they contend, it is too much of a bonanza to give federal employees pay raises in the 
total amount of compensation received by private sector workers, plus liberalized fringe benefits. 

The administration feels that fringe benefits should be figured as part of the total federal 
compensation package. 

Thus, for example, if government employees this year should secure improvements in retirement 
and insurance benefits, the amount of their next scheduled pay raise-either in October or Jan. 1, 
1974-would be reduced accordingly. For example, if improved fringe benefits totaled 1 percent and 
federal workers were in line for a pay raise of 5 percent next January, then the pay raise would be 
reduced to 4 percent. 

. Actuall y- federal blue-collar workers already face the prospect of having their scheduled pay raises 
this year reduced as a result of a law enacted by Congress last year. 

The new law goes into effect in April and adds two additional automatic in-grade pay steps. It’s 
estimated that this will increase the payroll cost by at least 1-1/2 to 2 percent. 

Thus, the Civil Service Commission and the Office of Management and Budget are now studying 
whether the amount should be deducted from this year’s round of pay raises for blue-collar workers. 

Also involved in the situation is the economic controls program which limits national pay raises to 
5.5 percent. Another 0.7 percent has been alloted for fringe benefits. In a few cases a combination of 
pay raises and fringe benefits totaling 7 percent has been allowed. The amount of federal blue-collar pav 
raises, plus their new liberalized pay structure, will have to be determined by the CSC and OMB to see if 
they can get the full amount of their scheduled pay raises this year. 

HEALTH INSURANCE AND OTHER ISSUES-Rep. Jerome Waldie, D-Calif„ chairman of the House 
Civil Service Insurance subcommittee, has sponsored legislation to increase the government’s contribution 
to the cost of group health insurance for federal employees, including postal workers. 

The bill would boost government’s present 40 percent of contributions to 45 percent upon 
enactment, and thereafter in annual 5 percent increments to a total of 75 percent. 

The House passed a similar bill last year. The Senate passed a less generous version, raising 
government contributions to 50 percent and excluding postal workers. 

It was the dispute over whether or not to include postal workers that killed the bill in 
House-Senate conference. The Senate would not yield in its insistance that postal workers be excluded 

Now, Waldie has again sponsored his bill with postal workers included. Unless the Senators change 
their minds, this once again could be a great stumbling block against the bill’s chances of enactment into 
law during this session of Congress. 


Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83-01004R000200050004-4 



Approved For Releaag 2002/05/07 : CIA-RD?>83-01004R0004#)050004-4 


Published weekly except the last week in December 
and the first week in January. Published by 
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES’ NEWS DIGEST INC 
1840 Fenwick St., NE, Washington, D.C. Second 
Class postage paid at Washington, D.C. 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES; 

2nd class mailing (in U.S. only) . . . $8.50 per year 

1st class mailing $11.50 per year 

Air Mail mailing $13.50 per year 

Mail all communications and orders to: 

FEDERAL EMPLOYEES’ NEWS DIGEST, INC. 
P.O. Box 457 
Merri field, Va. 22116 
Telephone (703) 533-3031 


In fact, the entire issue of whether postal 
workers should be treated as federal employees 
when it comes to fringe benefits is one that is 
going to have to be eventually decided by Con- 
gress. The last session of Congress never resolved 
the issue, with the result that virtually all fringe 
benefits bills went down the drain." The only 
thing the House and Senate are agreed on is that 
postal workers should be included in all retire- 
ment benefits legislation. 

But even on retirement, there is discord The 
House wants the Postal Service to reimburse the 
civil service retirement fund for the cost of all 
. future retirement liberalization costs pertaining to 

postal workers as well as the added cost to the retirement fund resulting from postal pay raises. To this 
end, the first week of the new Congress saw top members of the House Post Office and Civil Service 
Committee sponsor such legislation. They included Chairman Thaddeus Dulski, D-N Y and Rep H R 

Gross, R-Iowa, the ranking minority member. In contrast, the Senate Post Office and Civil Service 
Committee is opposed to such legislation. 

CSC CONTROVERSY-After Gordon Rule was bounced from his job as the top Navy civilian 
procurement office after criticizing President Nixon for picking the head of Litton Industries.' the giant 
conglomerate, as the new director of the Office of Management and Budget, he appealed to the Civil 
Service Commission. To his surprise he found that the vice chairman of the CSC, Mrs. Jayne Baker 
Spain, is a member of the board of directors of Litton and that she also receives $7,500 a "year from 

• , T u e P™P ri f y of a CSC commissioner serving as a director for a company that does a huge business 
with the federal government, particularly with the Defense Department and its more than 1 million 

civilian employees who have to appeal to the CSC on adverse personnel actions, has created considerable 
controversy. 

Mrs Spain has indicated that she would withdraw from the consideration of Rule’s appeal if it 
reaches the commissioners’ level. But the larger issue of the propriety of a CSC commissioner sewing as 

a member of the board of directors of a private company dealing with government and drawing a salary 
has not been resolved. ' 7 


P UBL IC HEARINGS-The Supreme Court has cleared the way for an open public hearing for A. Ernest 
Fitzgerald before the Civil Service Commission in his appeal of his dismissal by the Defense Department 
for disclosing cost overruns in the C5A cargo plane project. The U.S. Court of Appeals had given 
Fitzgerald the right to a public hearing at which the press would be present. The government asked the 
Supreme Court to delay the effect of the decision pending a possible appeal to the high tribunal. 
However, the government last week notified the Supreme Court that it would not contest the appeals 
court decision and the Supreme Court ratified the order. The action also opens the way for open public 
hearings for other government employees in appeals to the CSC if they want them. 

r° U , R ' DAY EXPERIIV,E NT DROPPED-The Nixon administration has torpedoed plans to test the 
feasibility of a four-day week in government. 

There had been reports emanating from a government conference on a four-day workweek that the 
Civil Service Commission was planning to enter into agreements with selected federal units to 
experiment with a shorter workweek. The object was to determine whether this would result in greater 
employee productivity and thus benefit the government. 

However, CSC Chairman Robert Hampton says the whole thing was a misunderstanding. 


Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83-01004R000200050004-4 




Januai^j^g^For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDPB3-O1OO4ROOOflfl0O5OOO4-4 


thM th ' Nixo " ad “ — *— 

industry, productivity results can be substituted instead. 

produaiv’ityof i i “di3 fetod wortefa" 4nTp^ will be'lalred”" ^ ^ 

rtat A Z!d'e T s7aMr s h N r' ^eSelaf it'n “ T* C ° mmitttC “V? * ™“ all-out war to defeat legislation 
rnar would establish a federal agency shop in government in which all employees in a unit represented 

by a union would have to pay the equivalent of union dues if they weren’t members ? 

excenritm ^ r the mCnt SyStCm “ and would mean a return to the spoils system 

Offickls who then doT T T P° litic ! ans ’ cm P loyees would be forced to buy favors from' union 
officials who then do the dealing with the politicians”, the right to work group said 

The right to work group said that federal unions had sought the right to represent nil ™ n i , , • 

■'ZLSztzszxz -rr - brs - d “ d 

cosriy and that these employees should be re,. ay J these n ° n ' m ' mberS B ver >' 


SOCIAL SECUR ITY— Rep. Joel Broyhill, 
Means Committee next year of legislation to 
social security coverage in addition to their 


R-Va., says he will seek approval in the House Ways and 
give federal and postal employees the option of securing full 
retirement benefits. Broyhill is a member of the Committee. 


1973 FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' ALMANAC RATES: 


Club Package Rates : 


Individual Copy Rates: 

$1.50 - via Regular Book Mailing 
$2.00 - via First Class Mailing 
$2.25 - via Air Mail 

WO C.O.D. 

ORDERS 

You and your co-workers can get your personal copies 
educed rate by ordering as a group and getting a club pkg. 


1 thru 5 
6 thru 19 
20 thru 49 
50 thru 99 
100 copies 


■ $1 .50 each 
. . 1 .35 each 
. . 1 .25 each 
. .1.15 each 
• . 1.10 each 
at a 


PLEASE TELL YOUR CO-WORKERS ABOUT FEDERAL 
EMPLOYEES' NEWS DIGEST. Subscriptions from 
individuals or office groups will be appreciated. Remem- 
ber, the subscription rate is only $8.50 for 50 weeks of 
factual and current information which affects every 
government career person. 


Federal Employees' News Digest may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission of the puhlisi 

MB* - - 


This Is Your 
WEEKLY 

FEDERAL EMPLOYEES 
NEWS DIGEST 


NEWSPAPER 


Second Class Postage Paid 
At Washington I). C. 


1 



The Latest 

Federal Employee News 
From AjQIsmhiatM^mre 0t£e 


Harry B. lusher , 

Director of Poroonnol n 0 * 1 

Cnntru). TiitolOtfonrift Afiency u 

WWjhlnRton, B.B. £01>0b 

PLEASE INCLUDE ZIP CODE NO. 

CUTOUT AND SUBMIT WITH RENEWAL OR ADDRESS CHANGE REQUEST , 
Send j: o :_Federa l_Em pJoyees_Ne_ws_Digest , Inc^ PXi._Box 457, Merrifield. Va. 22 11 6^ 


/ 07 : CIA-RDP83-01 00 


This Is Issue No. 22 

Subscriptions marked Exp. No. 22, 23 or 
24 in the address panel are expiring. 

4R8teCl^tfQ0OTQQ4^4^al orders NOW. 



Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83-01004R000200050004-4 


\ 

Apparently what shelved the project was the high cost of the overtime that would be involved. 

The plan apparently had been for federal workers in selected units to work a 10-hour day, four 
days a week. 

But this would necessitate time-and-one-half overtime, because all work in excess of 8 hours a day 
is considered to be overtime. 

And the Nixon administration is now engaged in an intensive economy program to reduce federal 
costs. The contemplated project therefore would have been directly contrary to administration policy 
and hence had to be scrapped. 

What the CSC would like to do is test the feasibility of a 4-day 40-hour workweek or variations of 
this without having to pay overtime to federal employees involved in this experiment. 

However, the law forbids government employees to waive their overtime rights, even if thev want 
to do so for a limited period in order to test the feasibility of a 4-day week. 

Consequently, any such test would involve the payment of overtime, a very costly item. And it 
definitely does not fit into the Nixon administration's scheme of things. 


POSTAL CRACKDOWN— Postmaster General T. E. Klassen has ordered involuntary reassignment of 
‘'ineffectual postmasters and supervisors. 5 ' 

In a memorandum to the five regional postmasters general throughout the country, Klassen said 
"The responsibility of postal managers is too critical to be left in the hands of those who do not 
provide strong, effective leadership." 

He cautioned, "On the other hand, nothing could be more self-defeating for postal management 
than the widespread and capricious transfer of postmasters or other managers against their wishes, for 
that would destroy the morale of a key group whose performance is essential to postal success." 

However, Klassen said that marginal postmasters and supervisors whose work is "inadequate" but 
not "hopeless", require special treatment. Presumably those in the "hopeless" category will be fired 

The marginal supervisors and postmasters will be transferred to less-demanding jobs, probably ar a 
cut in salary. 

Klassen said that "voluntary" movement is desirable, but "if necessary" the transfers will be made 
on an involuntary basis. 

Spokesmen for groups representing supervisors and postmasters fear the Klassen order will be 
abused, with competent managers being removed. They fed it could lead the way to a postal service 
"buddy" system whereby high officials will place their friends in choice jobs. 


TAX CASE— The federal district court for the eastern district of Michigan has placed on its April docket 
the test suit challenging the government’s right to tax the 7 percent of salary that federal and postal 
employees pay for their retirement benefits. 

The suit is being brought by the National Association of Internal Revenue Employees and the 
National Association of Letter Carriers. 


VA RUMOR— The Indianapolis Star and several other midwest newspapers have reported that the White 
House is considering replacing Veterans Administrator Donald Johnson with assistant deputy VA 
administrator Richard Roudebush. Roudcbush is a former member of Congress from Indiana. 

RETIREMENT MEASURES— Rep. Joel Broyhill, R-Va., has sponsored a bill to increase retirement 
annuities of government investigative and law-enforcement employees and to permit them to retire 
earlier. 

The measure would increase the present 2 percent annuity computation factor for these employees 
to 2-1/2 percent of high-three-year salary for the first 20 years of service and 3 percent for each year 
over 20. Also, they could retire after 20 years service at any age instead of the present age 50 
requirement. Involved would be Secret Service and FBI agents, U.S. Marshals, corrections officers. 
Immigration and Customs inspectors, etc. 


Approved For Release 2002/05/07 : CIA-RDP83-01004R000200050004-4 



EXTENSION 

NO. 

DD/3 73 .. / I 

1 1 

.DATE > 

. ’ ■ --ST-ATtiMT 


COMMENTS (Number each comment s't^v from wh 
to whom. Draw o line across column fitter -ommei 



C -ECRE 


Note article on 4 -da v wee! 
This, of course, is not new to u 
Based on OGC opinion and my 
recommendation, you approved 
amendment to regulations to 
provide for 4-day week and IQ o 
12 hour day (without overtime). 

“ "Thus far experiment has 

been successful and I am not no\ 
recommending we back off. But 
I guess we should he aware that 
an employee working a 10 tour 
day could file claim for overturn 
I wonder if we would pay obi or 
fight claim. 


1 ,~ 


Harry B. Fisher 
Director of Personni 


II a™ 

i,.* 'Mi. hi Kiii u jL Ji 

■ 

■ A ,■ 

> - -y* h . . ‘J a .• is . 

■ 

l:i 

CONFIDENTIAL 

a 

INTERNAL 

-*** °" IY 1 

□ 
mm i 


UNCLASSIFIED 

g iH ISE'I 'ili. Hj